Office/Unit/Project Description 

The UN Resident Coordinator (UNRC) is the designated representative of the UN Secretary-General to the   Government of India. The UNRC leads the UN Country Team in advocating the mandate of the United Nations, while drawing on the support and guidance of the entire UN family. UN Resident Coordinator's Office (RCO) supports the work of the UN Resident Coordinator in India and coordinates activities of the UN Country Team in its engagement with the Government of India as defined by the Government of India-UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework (UNSDCF). India is currently implementing the GoI-UNSDCF 2023-2027 which has outlined six thematic Outcome areas including: 1) Health and Well-being, 2) Nutrition and Food Security; 3) Quality Education; 4) Economic Growth and Decent Work; 5) Environment, Climate, WASH, and Resilience; and 6) Empowering People, Communities and Institutions. In addition, there are specific Outputs on SDG Localization and South-South Cooperation, as well as cross-cutting enablers of the Cooperation Framework including Gender, Youth, Disaster Risk Resilience.

To UN India has set up a UN India SDG Country Fund as a pooled funding mechanism that aims to accelerate implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in India by supporting the Government’s development priorities as outlined in the Government of India – United Nations Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework, 2023-27 (henceforth GoI-UNSDCF 2023-27, or Cooperation Framework). The Fund will draw up and mobilize financing for strategic interventions through which the UN development system can deliver in a more integrated and cohesive manner and contribute towards the implementation of the GoI-UNSDCF 2023 -27 and ultimately progress towards India’s ambitious vision for 2047. 

The Fund will operate thematic windows aligned to the Cooperation Framework and any of the above-mentioned Outcome areas, specific Outputs and cross-cutting enablers could be potential thematic windows in the Fund.

One of the priorities for the Government is taking India’s model of delivering development to countries of the global South through strengthening partnerships, collaboration and knowledge exchange in areas ranging from healthcare to digital public infrastructure. Importantly, in the current Cooperation Framework, South-South Cooperation (SSC) has been included as a key engagement priority and a specific Output, convened by the UN Resident Coordinator. The aim is strengthening South-South cooperation for accelerating achievement of the SDGs, including through codifying Indian best practices in key development areas, showcasing Indian models of development globally, as well as facilitating partnerships at national/ sub-national levels with other countries towards this goal.

As mentioned above, the Fund will operate thematic windows aligned to the Cooperation Framework. Following on the momentum unleashed by India’s Presidency of G20, as well as given the UN system in India’s long-term engagement with the government on the SSC and triangular cooperation agenda, one of the initial thematic windows would be on South-South Cooperation for acceleration of the SDGs.

A lean Secretariat, housed in the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office (UNRCO), will be created to service the UN India SDG Country Fund for the UN country team and facilitate management of proposals and implementation by specific UN agencies. To effectively manage the Fund's operations and assist with communication on supported projects, the Office of the UN Resident Coordinator (UN RCO) is seeking to hire the position of Monitoring and Evaluation Analyst, UN India SDG Country Fund.

Under the direct supervision of the Manager - Fund Operations and Coordination, UN India SDG Country Fund the position will work closely with the UN RCO Head of Office and provide overall support to the Fund on documentation and communications efforts, and administrative support as detailed out in the scope of work. The position will also require engagement with stakeholders via social media and performing due diligence, monitoring and generation of interest using social media accounts and monitoring news concerning the Fund and projects funded by the Fund.

 

Duties and Responsibilities

Main Purpose:

The role involves providing all requisite support for information management, and monitoring and evaluation for the programmes and activities of the UN India SDG Country Fund. The position will also involve creation of M&E frameworks and coordination with respective agencies for monitoring activities and outcomes related to the projects under the UN India SDG Country Fund. 

Duties and Responsibilities:

Ensure Monitoring, Evaluation and Learning (MEL) MEL System Design and Implementation:

Develop and implement comprehensive MEL frameworks, plans, and tools for the initiatives under the Fund, in alignment with organizational objectives.

Design data collection methods to capture outputs, outcomes, and impacts.

Establish baseline data and performance indicators to track progress and outcomes over time.

Coordinate Data Collection and Analysis:

Coordinate the collection, validation, and analysis of quantitative and qualitative data.

Ensure data quality through regular monitoring, validation, and verification procedures.

Analyse MEL data to identify trends, patterns, and insights relevant to performance and impact.

Prepare regular MEL reports and presentations for internal and external stakeholders, highlighting key findings, achievements, and challenges.

Facilitate Learning and Adaptation:

Facilitate learning sessions and workshops with relevant staff and partners to reflect on MEL findings, lessons learned, and best practices.

Support the integration of MEL findings into planning, implementation, and decision-making processes.

Identify opportunities for adaptation and improvement based on MEL results and stakeholder feedback.